# Lab High Level Steps: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows 10 Security Features
# Lab 3: Implementing AppLocker on Domain-joined Windows 10 Clients

### Scenario
You have a domain-joined Windows 10 client computer. You plan to take advantage of the AppLocker to prevent running unauthorized apps on the local computer.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 30 minutes

The lab consists of the following computers:

  -   LON-DC1 – a Windows Server 2016 domain controller in the adatum.com single-domain forest. You will use it to host a Certification Authority.
  -   LON-CL1 – a Windows 10 Pro or Enterprise version 1709 (or newer) domain member computer with Remote Server Administration Tools for Windows 10.

All computers have Windows PowerShell Remoting enabled

  > **Note:**  AppLocker complements application control policies provided in Windows 10 by such mechanisms as Device Guard. It also allows for implementing code integrity in scenarios where Device Guard is not available. Implementing AppLocker involves:
  -   Defining AppLocker rules – in an Active Directory environment, this is accomplished by using Group Policy
  -   Auditing app usage based on defined AppLocker rules – this is an optional, typically intermediate implementation stage that allows for evaluating whether the rules will accomplish intended objectives.
  -   Enforcing app usage based on defined AppLocker rules

  > **Note:**  In order to be able to manage AppLocker via Group Policy, the target computers must run Windows 10 Enterprise or Windows 10 Education. You can also use Group Policy-based management to control apps running on Windows Server 2016 computers. In order to apply AppLocker to other editions of Windows 10, you have to use AppLocker configuration service provider (CSP). For more information regarding AppLocker CSP, refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/client-management/mdm/applocker-csp

## Exercise 1: Implement AppLocker on a domain-joined Windows 10 client

In this exercise, you will implement AppLocker to prevent running unauthorized apps on domain-joined Windows 10 clients. The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1.   Create an AppLocker policy with default rules for audit only and assign it to a Windows 10 computer
2.   Generate the AppLocker policy auditing events
3.   Review the AppLocker policy events
4.   Implement custom AppLocker policy rules

#### Task 1: Create an AppLocker policy with default rules for audit only and assign it to a Windows 10 computer

1.   Sign to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start **Active Directory Administrative Center**. 
3.   From the Active Directory Administrative Center console, create a new group with the following settings:

  -   Group name: **AppLocker Computers**
  -   Group (SamAccountName): **AppLocker Computers**
  -   Group type: **Security** 
  -   Group scope: **Global**
  -   Members: **LON-CL1**

4.   From LON-CL1, start **Group Policy Management**.
5.   In the Group Policy Management console, create a new GPO with the following settings:

  -   Name: **AppLocker Policy** 
  -   Linked to: **Adatum.com**
  -   Applied to: **AppLocker Computers**

6.   Open the **AppLocker Policy** GPO in **Group Policy Management Editor** and navigate to **Computer Configuration, Policies, Windows Settings, Security Settings, Application Control Policies, AppLocker**.
7.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, select and right-click **Executable Rules** and click **Create Default Rules**. Review the set of default rules.
8.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, select and right-click **Windows Installer Rules** and click **Create Default Rules**. Review the set of default rules.
9.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, select and right-click **Script Rules** and click **Create Default Rules**. Review the set of default rules.
10.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, select and right-click **Packaged app Rules** and click **Create Default Rules**. Review the set of default rules.
11.   In **Group Policy Management Editor**, set **Configure rule enforcement** of **AppLocker** as follows:

  -   Executable rules: **Audit only**
  -   Windows Installer rules: **Audit only**
  -   Script rules: **Audit only**
  -   Packaged app Rules: **Audit only**

  > **Note:**  Make sure that you do NOT enforce the rules at this point.

12.   In **Group Policy Management Editor**, navigate to **Security Settings** subnode of the **Security Settings** node.
13.   Configure **Application Identity** service entry by setting its startup mode to **Automatic**. 

  > **Note:**  AppLocker is dependent on the **Application Identity** service running.

14.   Restart LON-CL1.

  > **Note:**  The restart is necessary in order for the group membership change of LON-CL1 to take effect. 

#### Task 2: Generate the AppLocker policy auditing events

  > **Note:**  In order to generate audit logs, you will perform a number of standard administrative tasks while signed on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, including creating an Active Directory user (**ADATUM\\Student1**) that you will subsequently sign-in as to the same Windows 10 computer in order to perform tasks that would qualify as unauthorized. 

  > **Note:**  **ADATUM\\Student1** will be able to perform these unauthorized tasks primarily because of having have local Administrator privileges to the Windows 10 computer being used by **ADATUM\\Administrator**. In general, you should avoid granting such privileges to users. In scenarios where this is not possible, you should use other control mechanisms (such as AppLocker, as illustrated in this lab) in order to mitigate potential exploits. 

1.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start **Active Directory Administrative Center**.
3.   In the **Active Directory Administrative Center** console, create a new user with the following settings:

  -   Full name: **Student1**
  -   User UPN logon: **Student1@Adatum.com**
  -   User SamAccountName logon: **ADATUM\\Student1**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd** 
  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**
  -   Password options:  enable the check box **Other password options – Password never expires**

4.   From LON-CL1, use Windows PowerShell to add **ADATUM\\Student1** to the local **Administrators** group.
5.   Sign out from LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**. 
6.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Student1**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

7.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Student1**, start **regedit.exe** as Administrator. 

  > **Note:**  Next, you will download and use the mimikatz utility, which could be used to capture password hashes of privileged user accounts. Mimikatz is automatically detected by Windows Defender as malware and deleted. In order to avoid it, you will have to create a Windows Defender folder exclusion. Without it, the downloaded file will be automatically deleted since it is detected as malware. In general, you obviously should avoid downloading such files or creating exclusions to facilitate their download

8.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Student1**, start **Windows Defender Security Center**.
9.   From the **Windows Defender Security Center**, add an exclusion for the **C:\Exclusions** folder. 10.   Start Microsoft Edge and browse to https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/releases 
11.   Download the most recent version of **mimikatz_trunk.zip** into the **C:\\Exclusions** folder.
12.   Extract the content of the **x64** subfolder of **mimikatz_trunk.zip** to the **C:\\Exclusions** folder.
13.   Start **Command Prompt** as Administrator.
14.   In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, set the current directory to **C:\\Exclusions** and run the following:

```
mimikatz
privilege::debug 
sekurlsa::logonPasswords
```

15.   Examine the output. It should include an entry representing the interactive and remote logons. You will find out how to use mimikatz for an exploit based on this feature in the next lab.
16.   Back in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, at the **mimikatz #** prompt, type **exit**.
17.   Start **Internet Explorer**, browse to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/psexec and download **PsTools.zip** to the **C:\\Exclusions** folder.
18.   Extract **PsExec64.exe** from the **PsTools.zip** to the **C:\\Exclusions** folder.
19.   From the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, run **C:\\Exclusions\\PsExec64.exe**. Verify that **PsExec64.exe** executed successfully.
20.   Sign out from LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Student1**.


#### Task 3: Review the AppLocker policy events
1.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start **Event Viewer**
3.   In **Event Viewer**, navigate to **Applications and Services Logs->Microsoft->Windows->AppLocker**.
4.   Review entries appearing in the following operational logs:

  -   **EXE and DLL**
  -   **MSI and Script**
  -   **Packaged app-Deployment**
  -   **Packaged app-Execution**

5.   Switch to the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, and run the following:

```
Get-AppLockerFileInformation –EventLog | Format-List
```

  > **Note:**  Examine the output and identify the executable you run in the previous task. Note that all of the executables (including mimikatz.exe and PsExec64.exe) would be allowed with the default rules in place. Also note that even mimikatz.exe is digitally signed, as you can verify by running Get-AppLockerFileInformation with the –Path parameter. You will take advantage of this by replacing the existing default rules with a new, Publisher-based rule with Publisher-based exceptions.


#### Task 4: Implement custom AppLocker policy rules

  > **Note:**  In order to prevent running the executables listed above, you will implement a Publisher-based rule with Publisher-based exceptions. It is important to realize that such approach is intended strictly to illustrate its effectiveness in remediating this particular issue. In real-life scenarios, you would obviously need to take into account variety of applications that are being used across your environment, some of which might not be digitally signed.

1.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start **Group Policy Management**.
2.   From the **Group Policy Management** console, open the **AppLocker Policy** in **Group Policy Management Editor**.
3.   In the **Group Policy Management Editor** window, expand **Computer Configuration, Policies, Windows Settings, Security Settings, Application Control Policies, AppLocker**.
4.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, navigate to **Executable Rules**.
5.   Create a new rule with the following settings:

  -   Permissions: **Allow** to **Everyone**
  -   Conditions: **Publisher** set to **Any publisher**
  -   Exception: **C:\\Windows\\regedit.exe** with **File version** entry set to **0.0.0.0**
  -   Exception: **C:\\Exclusions\\PsExec64.exe** with **File version** entry set to **0.0.0.0**
  -   Exception: **C:\\Exclusions\\mimikatz.exe** with the matching **Publisher**
  -   Name: **Allow All Signed Executables (with Publisher Exceptions)** 

6.   Delete the three default **Executable Rules**. 
7.   Back in the **Group Policy Management Editor** window, modify the **Allow Properties** of the newly created rule by setting the **File version** entry to **0.0.0.0** on the the **Publisher** tab.
8.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, apply the Group Policy update to LON-CL1 
9.   Sign out from LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**. 
10.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Student1**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

11.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Student1**, start **Command Prompt** as Administrator. 
12.   From the **Administrator:Command Prompt** window, start **regedit.exe**. 
13.   From the **Administrator:Command Prompt** window, change the current directory to **C:\\Exclusions** and run the following:

```
mimikatz
exit
```

14.   From the the **Administrator:Command Prompt** window, start **C:\\Exclusions\\PsExec64.exe**.
15.   Start **Event Viewer**
16.   In **Event Viewer**, navigate to **Applications and Services Log->Microsoft->Windows->AppLocker**.
17.   Review the **Warning** level entries appearing in the **EXE and DLL** operational log. 

  > **Note:**  Note that this time, the event log contains warnings, indicating that regedit, mimikatz.exe, and PsExec64 would have been prevented from running if the AppLocker policies were enforced. To enforce the policies at this point, you would simply change the AppLocker Properties in the Group Policy Management Editor from **Audit only** to **Enforce rules**. Do not take this extra step since this has a potential of affecting the validation scripts.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented AppLocker policies that prevent running unsigned executables, including exceptions that prevent running specific signed executables.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.