# Lab High Level Steps: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows 10 Security Features
# Lab 5: Implementing Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard and Remote Admin mode on Domain-joined Windows 10 Clients

### Scenario
You have a domain-joined Windows 10 client computer. You plan to take advantage of the Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard and Restrict Admin mode to protect credentials during Remote Desktop sessions between Windows 10 client and Windows Server 2016 computers. 

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 30 minutes

The lab consists of the following computers:

  -   LON-DC1 – a Windows Server 2016 domain controller in the adatum.com single-domain forest. You will use it to host a Certification Authority.
  -   LON-SVR1 – a Windows Server 2016 domain member server
  -   LON-CL1 – a Windows 10 Pro or Enterprise version 1709 (or newer) domain member computer with Remote Server Administration Tools for Windows 10.

All computers have Windows PowerShell Remoting enabled

  > **Note:**  Remote Desktop connections protected with Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard have the following characteristics:
  -   Require Windows 10 version 1607 (or newer) or Windows Server 2016
  -   Enforce of Kerberos authentication (NTLM is not allowed).
  -   Require that both computers (a Remote Desktop client and a Remote Desktop host) are members of the same Active Directory domain or trusted Active Directory domains (Kerberos is enforced)
  -   Support connecting with non-Administrative credentials (as a member of the Remote Desktop Users group)
  -   Support connecting with signed-on, supplied, or saved credentials (starting with Windows 10, version 1703)
  -   Support single sign-on
  -   Do not support via the Remote Desktop classic Windows app (the Universal Windows Platform app is not supported)
  -   Mitigate Pass The Hash attacks
  -   Mitigate exploits of Remote Desktop session credentials following session disconnects
  -   Allow for network access in the security context of the signed-on user

  > **Note:**  Remote Desktop connections protected with Restricted Admin mode have the following characteristics: 
  -   Require Windows 7 (or newer) or Windows Server 2008 R2 (or newer)
  -   Support NTLM and Kerberos
  -   Support computers that are not members of Active Directory domains
  -   Require that accounts used establish Remote Desktop sessions are members of the Administrators group on the remote computer.
  -   Support connectivity via the Remote Desktop classic Windows app or the Universal Windows Platform app
  -   Support connectivity with signed-on, supplied, or saved credentials
  -   Support single sign-on
  -   Mitigate of Pass The Hash attacks
  -   Mitigate exploits of Remote Desktop sessions throughout their duration (including disconnects)
  -   Support connecting with signed-on, supplied, or saved credentials.
  -   Provide network access in the security context of the Remote Desktop session host computer 


## Exercise 1: Implement Remote Desktop session protection with Remote Credential Guard

In this exercise, you will implement Remote Desktop session protection with Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard. The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1.   Enable Remote Credential Guard on the Remote Desktop target host.
2.   Enable Remote Credential Guard on the Remote Desktop client
3.   Allow Remote Desktop connections to the Remote Desktop target host
4.   Establish a Remote Desktop session with Remote Credential Guard enabled.
5.   Examine Remote Credential Guard protection.


#### Task 1: Enable Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard on the Remote Desktop target host

1.   Sign to the LON-SVR1 Windows 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start **Registry Editor**.
3.   In the **Registry Editor** window, navigate to the **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\System\\CurrentControlSet\\Control\\Lsa** registry key.
4.   Create a new registry entry named **DisableRestrictedAdmin** of **REG_DWORD** type and set its value to **0**.
5.   Close **Registry Editor**.

  > **Note:**  Alternatively, you can accomplish the same result by running the following from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** elevated prompt:

```
Set-ItemProperty –Path HKLM:\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa –Name DisableRestrictedAdmin -Value 0 –Type DWord
```

#### Task 2: Enable Remote Credential Guard on the Remote Desktop client

1.   Sign in to the LON-DC1 Windows Server 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start **Active Directory Administrative Center**.
3.   In the **Active Directory Administrative Center** console, create a new user with the following settings:

  -   Full name: **Student1**
  -   User UPN logon: **Student1@Adatum.com**
  -   User SamAccountName logon: **Adatum\Student1**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd** 
  -   Password options: **Other password options – Password never expires**

4.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Invoke-Command –ComputerName LON-SVR1 –ScriptBlock {Add-LocalGroupMember –Group 'Administrators' –Member 'ADATUM\Student1'}
```

  > **Note:**  This will add the newly created user to the local Administrators group on LON-SVR1. You will use the ADATUM\\Student1 account during this and subsequent tasks to test the functionality of Remote Credential Guard and the Restricted Admin Mode.

5.   While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start **Group Policy Management**.
6.   In the **Group Policy Management** console, create a new GPO with the following settings: 

  -   Name: **Remote Desktop Protection Policy**
  -   Linked to: **Adatum.com**
  -   Applied to: **LON-CL1**

  > **Note:**  Typically, you would use an Active Directory group containing the LON-CL1 computer account to apply Security Filtering of a GPO. We are using the LON-CL1 computer account directly for the sake of simplicity. This is a viable approach in a lab scenario.

7.   Open the **Remote Desktop Protection Policy** GPO in **Group Policy Management Editor** and navigate to **Computer Configuration->Policies->Administrative Templates->System->Credentials Delegation**.
8.   Enable the **Restrict delegation of credentials to remote servers** setting and, in the **Use the following restricted mode** drop-down list, select **Require Remote Credential Guard**.

  > **Note:**  The Restrict delegation of credentials to remote servers setting offers three choices:
  -   Require Remote Credential Guard – enforces Windows Defender Credential Guard
  -   Require Restricted Admin – enforces Restricted Admin
  -   Restrict Credential Delegation – enforces Windows Defender Credential Guard if supported – otherwise enforces Restricted Admin.

9.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

10.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, apply the Group Policy update to LON-CL1.

  > **Note:**  Validation of the functionality of Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard and Remote Desktop mode will involve remote enumeration of the content of the administrative share on LON-CL1. To faciliate this, you need to modify the defaut settings of Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security.

11.   On LON-CL1, start **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security** as Administrator.
12.   In the **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security** console window, enable the **File and Printer Sharing (Echo Request – ICMPv4-In)** associated with the **Domain** profile.


#### Task 3: Allow Remote Desktop connections to the Remote Desktop target host

1.   On LON-SVR1, while signed in as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, enable the **Allow remote connections to this computer** setting.
2.   Sign out from LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**.
3.   Sign in to the LON-SVR1 Windows 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Student1**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

#### Task 4: Establish a Remote Desktop session with Remote Credential Guard enabled.

1.   On LON-CL1, while signed on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start a **Remote Desktop Connection** to **LON-SVR1.adatum.com**.
2.   Wait until the Remote Desktop connection is established.

  > **Note:**  In scenarios where you have not enforced the Remote Credential Guard on a remote server via Group Policy, you can add the /remoteGuard switch when running mstsc.exe to specify that you want to apply the Remote Credential Guard protection. 

#### Task 5: Examine Remote Credential Guard protection 

  > **Note:**  In this task, you will use mimikatz in order to attempt retrieval of credentials of a user accessing the local server via Remote Desktop. Without the Remote Credential Guard protection, this attempt would be successful. Note that running mimikatz in this manner requires local Administrator privileges.

  > **Note:**  In order to complete subsequent steps, you will need to create a Windows Defender folder exclusion. Without it, the downloaded file will be automatically deleted since it is detected as malware. In general, you obviously should avoid downloading such files or creating exclusions to facilitate their download.

1.   Switch to the console connection to LON-SVR1 (as **ADATUM\\Student1**).
2.   Use **Windows Defender** interface in the **Settings** app, to add an exclusion for the **C:\Exclusions** folder. 
3.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path 'C:\Exclusions' -Force
[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType
Invoke-WebRequest –Uri https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/releases/download/2.1.1-20180616/mimikatz_trunk.zip -Outfile C:\Exclusions\mimikatz_trunk.zip
```

  > **Note:**  This will download the release 2.1.1-20180616 of mimikatz (mimikatz_trunk.zip) into the C:\\Exclusions folder from https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/releases

4.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Expand-Archive –Path C:\Exclusions\mimikatz_trunk.zip -DestinationPath C:\Exclusions -Force
```

  > **Note:**  This will extract the content of the downloaded archive the C:\\Exclusions folder.

5.   Start **Command Prompt** as Administrator.
6.   In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, change the current directory to **C:\\Exclusions\\x64**.
7.   From the Command Prompt, run the following:

```
mimikatz
privilege::debug
sekurlsa::logonPasswords
exit
```

  > **Note:**  Examine the output. It should include an entry representing the remote interactive logon of the ADATUM Administrator account. Note that the value of the Kerberos password as well as NTLM and SHA1 hashes are not available. 

8.   Switch to LON-CL1 and, in the Remote Desktop session to LON-SVR1, start **Command Prompt**.
9.   At the Command Prompt, type **klist**.
10.   Examine the list of Kerberos tickets. Notice that all tickets have been issued to Administrator@ADATUM.COM.
11.   From the Command Prompt, run the following:

```
dir \\LON-CL1.adatum.com\c$
```

  > **Note:**  Verify that the output of the command includes the listing of the top level folders on the LON-CL1. This is expected since you are using the credentials of the ADATUM Administrator account, which is a member of the local Administrators group on LON-CL1.

12.   Rerun **klist** and note an additional Kerberos ticket issued to Administrator@ADATUM.COM.
13.   Log off as Administrator@adatum.com from within the Remote Desktop session to LON-SVR1.
14.   Switch to the console connection to LON-SVR1 (to which you are signed in as **ADATUM\\Student1**).
15.   On LON-SVR1, start **Event Viewer**.
16.   In the **Event Viewer** window, click **Security**.
17.   In the Security log, search for the events **4624** corresponding to the successful log on using the Administrator@adatum.com credentials. Locate the event corresponding to the log on via the Remote Desktop.
18.   Review the details of the event. On the **General** tab, scroll down through the subject of the event. Make sure that the logon type is 10, which represents a Remote Interactive logon. 
19.   Note that the authentication package is set to Negotiate.
20.   Close the **Event Viewer** window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented Remote Credential Guard and tested its functionality.



## Exercise 2: Implement Remote Desktop session protection with Restricted Admin Mode

In this exercise, you will implement Remote Desktop session protection with Restricted Admin Mode. The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1.   Enable Restricted Admin Mode on the Remote Desktop client
2.   Establish a Remote Desktop session with Restricted Admin Mode enabled.
3.   Examine Restricted Admin Mode protection.

#### Task 1: Enable Restricted Admin Mode on the Remote Desktop client

1.   While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, in the **Group Policy Management Editor** window of the **Remote Desktop Protection Policy** GPO, ensure that you are viewing the **Computer Configuration->Policies->Administrative Templates->System->Credentials Delegation** node.
2.   From the details pane, open the window displaying **Restrict delegation of credentials to remote servers** setting
3.   Assign the **Require Restricted Admin** value to the **Use the following restricted mode** setting. 
4.   Switch to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine where you are logged on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**
5.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, apply the Group Policy update to LON-CL1.


#### Task 2: Establish a Remote Desktop session with Restricted Admin Mode enabled.

1.   On LON-CL1, while signed on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start a **Remote Desktop Connection** to **LON-SVR1.adatum.com**.
2.   Wait until the Remote Desktop connection is established.

  > **Note:**  In scenarios where you have not enforced Remote Credential Guard on a remote server, you can add the /restrictedAdmin switch when running mstsc.exe to specify that you want to apply the Restricted Admin Mode protection. 

#### Task 3: Examine Restricted Admin Mode protection 

1.   Switch to the console connection to LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Student1**.
2.   From the Command Prompt window, run the following:

```
mimikatz
privilege::debug
sekurlsa::logonPasswords
exit
```

  > **Note:**  Examine the output. It should include an entry representing the remote interactive logon of the ADATUM Administrator account. Note that the value of the Kerberos password entry is null and even though NTLM and SHA1 hashes are available, they all represent the credentials of the LON-SVR1 computer account, rather than the ADATUM\\Student1 user account (as indicated by the Username : LON-SVR1$ entry).

3.   Switch to LON-CL1 and, in the Remote Desktop session to LON-SVR1, start **Command Prompt** as Administrator.
4.   At the Command Prompt, type **klist**.
5.   Examine the list of Kerberos tickets. Note that they were issued to LON-SVR1@adatum.com, rather than Administrator@adatum.com.
6.   From the Command Prompt, run the following:

```
dir \\LON-CL1.adatum.com\c$
```

  > **Note:**  Note that this time the command displays the Access is denied error message. This is expected since you are using the credentials of the LON-SVR1@adatum.com computer account, which is not a member of the local Administrators group on LON-CL1. If you want to provide access to remote shares from within a Remote Desktop session in the Restricted Admin mode, you would need to grant permissions to the computer account which hosts the Remote Desktop session.

7.   Log off as Administrator@adatum.com from within the Remote Desktop session to LON-SVR1.
8.   Switch to the console connection to LON-SVR1 (to which you are signed in as **ADATUM\\Student1**).
9.   On LON-SVR1, start **Event Viewer**.
10.   In the **Event Viewer** window, click **Security**.
11.   In the Security log, search for the events **4624** corresponding to the successful log on using the Administrator@adatum.com credentials. Locate the event corresponding to the log on via the Remote Desktop.
12.   View details of the event. On the **General** tab, scroll down through the subject of the event. Make sure that the logon type is 10, which represents a Remote Interactive logon. 
13.   Note that the **Restricted Admin Mode** is set to **Yes**.
14.   Close the Event Viewer window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented Restricted Admin Mode and tested its functionality.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.