# Lab Answer Key: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows 10 Security Features
# Lab 2: Implementing BitLocker on Domain-joined Windows 10 Clients

## Exercise 1: Encrypt non-operating system volumes by using BitLocker

#### Task 1: Encrypt non-operating system volumes by using BitLocker with the Password protector. 

1.   Sign to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows PowerShell** folder, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, click **More** and then click **Run as administrator**. 
3.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
$securePassword = ConvertTo-SecureString 'Pa55w.rd123' –AsPlainText -Force
Enable-BitLocker –MountPoint 'G:' –PasswordProtector –Password $securePassword –UsedSpaceOnly
```

  > **Note:**  The use of the `–UsedSpaceOnly` parameter is required for thin-provisioned volumes, like the ones set up on the lab VM. In addition, this causes the encryption to complete much faster on volumes with small amount of used disk space. However, you should avoid using this parameter on volumes that contain deleted files, which recovery via disk recovery tools you want to prevent.

4.   To confirm that the volume is fully encrypted, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
Get-BitLockerVolume –MountPoint 'G:'
```

5.   Verify that the **VolumeStatus** column displays **FullyEncrypted**.
6.   Open File Explorer, click **This PC** and note that the **Disk1 (G:)** icon includes an open pad lock.
7.   Switch to the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane and run the following:

```
$disk = Get-Disk | Where-Object {$_.Number -eq 2}
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $true
```

8.   This will take offline the Disk1 hosting the G: drive. Now, bring it back online by running the following:

```
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $false
```

9.   Switch to the File Explorer and note that the G: drive icon included a locked pad lock.

  > **Note:**  This is expected, since G: drive is encrypted with BitLocker, so if you bring it online, you need to unlock it by providing the protector key. 

10.   To unlock the G: drive, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
Unlock-BitLocker -MountPoint 'G:' -Password $securePassword
```

11.   Switch to the File Explorer window and verify that you can access G: drive.

#### Task 2: Encrypt the volume G: by using BitLocker with AD Account or Group Protector.

1.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
Enable-BitLocker –MountPoint 'G:' –AdAccountOrGroupProtector –AdAccountOrGroup 'ADATUM\Domain Admins'
```

  > **Note:**  This adds another protector to the existing BitLocker encrypted volume. As the result, you can unlock it by using either the password or by simply ensuring that you are signed in with the account that is a member of the Active Directory domain group you specified. You can also associate the protector directly with an individual Active Directory domain user account, rather than an Active Directory domain group. 

2.   Note that the **KeyProtector** column in the output of the Enable-BitLocker command includes now two protectors.
3.   Now, take the Disk1 hosting the G: drive offline again, by running the following from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane: 

```
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $true
```

4.   Next, bring it back online by running the following:

```
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $false
```

  > **Note:**  Note that, this time, the volume becomes automatically unlocked, since you are signed in with the **ADATUM\\Administrator** account, which is a member of **ADATUM\\Domain Admins**, specified when assigning the AD Account or Group protector. This is expected, since G: drive is encrypted with BitLocker, so if you bring it online, you need to unlock it by providing the protector key. 

#### Task 3: Remove a BitLocker Protector.

1.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
(Get-BitLockerVolume –MountPoint 'G:').KeyProtector
```

  > **Note:**  This displays the current protectors assigned to the G: volume.

2.   To remove the Password protector, while leaving the volume encrypted and the AD Account or Group protector in place, run the following from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane: 

```
$passwordProtector = (Get-BitLockerVolume –MountPoint 'G:').KeyProtector | Where-Object {$_.KeyProtectortype –eq 'Password'}
Remove-BitLockerKeyProtector –MountPoint 'G:' –KeyProtectorId $passwordProtector.KeyProtectorId
```

  > **Note:**  Note that, in the output of the `Remove-BitLockerKeyProtector` cmdlet, the **VolumeStatus** column displays **FullyEncrypted** and the **KeyProtector** column displays **{AdAccountOrGroup}**. AD Account or Group protector must be used in combination with another protector (such as TPM, PIN, or recovery key) when applied to the operating system drives. However, as you can see, you can use it as a sole protector for data volumes. 
This capability facilitates scenarios in which you want to use BitLocker to encrypt cluster volumes on Windows Server Failover Clusters. In such cases, you would assign the AD Account or Group protector to the Cluster Name Object (CNO) account.

3.   Now, take the Disk1 hosting the G: drive offline again, by running the following from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane: 

```
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $true
```

4.   Next, bring it back online by running the following:

```
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $false
```

5.   Note that, this time as well, the volume becomes automatically unlocked, since you are still relying on the AD Account or Group protector.

#### Task 4: Remove BitLocker encryption.

1.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
Disable-BitLocker –MountPoint 'G:'
```

  > **Note:**  This will display the current BitLocker status of the G: volume, which should be initially **DecryptionInProgress**

2.   To confirm that the volume is fully decrypted, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
Get-BitLockerVolume –MountPoint 'G:'
```

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have encrypted a data volume by using BitLocker with the Password and AD Account or Group protection, removed the Password protector, and removed BitLocker encryption from the data volume.


## Exercise 2: Recovering access to BitLocker-encrypted volumes

#### Task 1: Encrypt a BitLocker volume with the Password protector and with a recovery key

1.   On LON-CL1, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab2Ex2Task1-01.ps1):

```
$securePassword = ConvertTo-SecureString 'Pa55w.rd123' –AsPlainText -Force
Enable-BitLocker –MountPoint 'H:' –PasswordProtector `
 			–Password $securePassword –UsedSpaceOnly
Enable-BitLocker –MountPoint 'H:' –RecoveryKeyPath 'C:\Recovery\' `
 			-RecoveryKeyProtector
```

  > **Note:**  This encrypts the volume H: with the Password protector and, in addition, creates a recovery key and stores it in the C:\\Recovery hidden folder 

2.   To confirm that the volume is fully encrypted, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
Get-BitLockerVolume –MountPoint 'H:'
```

3.   Note that the **KeyProtector** column displays **Password, ExternalKey**.
4.   To confirm that the recovery key actually exists, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane run the following:

```
Get-ChildItem –Path 'C:\Recovery' –Recurse –File -Force
```

  > **Note:**  This will list the .BEK file in the C:\\Recovery folder.

#### Task 2: Recover access to a BitLocker-encrypted volume by using its recovery key.

1.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
$disk = (Get-Disk | Where-Object {$_.Number -eq 3})
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $true
```

2.   This will take offline in the Disk2 hosting the H: drive. Now, bring it back online by running the following:

```
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $false
```

3.   This will mount the H: drive but leave it locked.

  > **Note:**  This is expected, since H: drive is encrypted with BitLocker, so if you bring it online, you need to unlock it by providing either the protector key or the recovery key.

4.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
$externalKey = (Get-ChildItem –Path 'C:\\Recovery' –Recurse –File –Force)[0]
```

5.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
Unlock-BitLocker -MountPoint 'H:' –RecoveryKeyPath "$($externalKey.DirectoryName)\$($externalKey.Name)"
```

  > **Note:**  This will unlock the volume H: by using the recovery key, rather than the password. This provides an alternative way to unlock an encrypted volume, in case you forget the password. Obviously you should protect access to the .BEK file just as you would want to make sure that your password is known only to those who are authorized to unlock the volume.


#### Task 3: Enable storing BitLocker recovery information in Active Directory.

1.   On LON-CL1, click **Start** and then click the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder. 
2.   In the list of Administrative Tools, click **Group Policy Management**.
3.   In the Group Policy Management console, expand the **Forest: Adatum.com** and **Domains** nodes, right click **Adatum.com**, and click the **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here** entry in the right-click menu. 
4.   In the **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **BitLocker Policy** and click **OK**.
5.   Back in the Group Policy Management console, expand the **Adatum.com** node, right-click **BitLocker Policy** GPO and click **Edit**. If prompted with the message box stating **You have selected a link to a Group Policy Object (GPO). Except for changes to link properties, changes you make here are global to the GPO, and will impact all other locations where this GPO is linked**, enable the checkbox **Do not show this message again** and click **OK**.
6.   In the Group Policy Management Editor window, navigate to **Computer Configuration->Policies->Administrative Templates->Windows Components->BitLocker Drive Encryption**.
7.   In the details pane, right-click **Store BitLocker recovery information in Active Directory Domain Services** and, in the right-click menu, click **Edit**.
8.   In the **Store BitLocker recovery information in Active Directory Domain Services** window, click **Enabled** and click **OK**.

  > **Note:**  With the default settings, BitLocker backup to AD DS is required and it includes Recovery password and key packages.

9.   In the Group Policy Management Editor window, navigate to **Computer Configuration->Policies->Administrative Templates->Windows Components->BitLocker Drive Encryption->Fixed Data Drives**.
10.   Right-click **Choose how BitLocker-protected fixed drives can be recovered** and, in the right-click menu, click **Edit**.
11.   In the **Choose how BitLocker-protected fixed drives can be recovered** window, click **Enabled** and click **OK**.

  > **Note:**  With the default settings, BitLocker recovery information to AD DS includes recovery passwords and key packages.

12.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following:

```
gpupdate /force
Invoke-GPUpdate –Computer LON-DC1 –Target Computer -RandomDelayInMinutes 0 -Force
```

  > **Note:**  This applies the Group Policy update to LON-CL1 and LON-DC1

#### Task 4: Generate a BitLocker recovery password, store it in Active Directory, and use it to access encrypted volume.

1.   While logged on to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane run the following:

```
Get-BitLockerVolume –MountPoint 'H:' | Enable-BitLocker -RecoveryPasswordProtector
```

  > **Note:**  This will display the output listing the 48-character recovery password. Typically, you would copy this password to a file and store it in a secure location. You can still do this, but, in this task, you will leverage the functionality you configured in the previous task, which stores this password in Active Directory.

2.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab2Ex2Task4-01.ps1):

```
$recoveryPasswordProtector = (Get-BitLockerVolume –MountPoint 'H:').KeyProtector | Where-Object {$_.KeyProtectorType –eq 'RecoveryPassword'}
Backup-BitLockerKeyProtector –MountPoint 'H:' –KeyProtectorId $recoveryPasswordProtector.KeyProtectorId
```

  > **Note:**  This step is necessary since we enabled BitLocker prior to enabling BitLocker-specific Group Policy settings in task 3 of this exercise. Once these settings are in place, the recovery information is being automatically backed up to Active Directory when you enable BitLocker encryption on domain member computers.

3.   Take offline the Disk2 hosting the H: drive by running the following from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane:

```
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $true
```

4.   Now, bring it back online by running the following from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane:

```
$disk | Set-Disk -IsOffline $false
```

5.   This will mount drive H: but leave it locked.

  > **Note:**  This is expected, since H: drive is encrypted with BitLocker, so if you bring it online, you need to unlock it by providing either the password protector or the recovery password.

6.   On LON-CL1, click **Start** and then, in the **Start** menu, click the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder. 
7.   In the list of Administrative Tools, click **Active Directory Users and Computers**.
8.   In the Active Directory Users and Computers console, navigate to the **Computers* container, right-click the **LON-CL1** computer object and, in the right-click menu, click **Properties**.
9.   In the **LON-CL1 Properties** dialog box, click the **BitLocker Recovery** tab.
10.   Right-click the entry in the **BitLocker Recovery Password** section and click **Copy Details**.
11.   On LON-CL1, click **Start**, expand the **Windows Accessories** folder and, in the list of Windows accessories, click **Notepad**.
12.   Paste the content you copied into Notepad.
13.   Copy the recovery password from Notepad into Clipboard

  > **Note:**  Before you copy the recovery password into Clipboard, remove any extraneous spaces and line breaks. The recovery passwords should consist of eight groups of six digits each, separated by dashes, with no spaces

14.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following (where `xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx` represents the recovery password you copied from Active Directory):

```
Unlock-BitLocker –MountPoint 'H:' –RecoveryPassword 'xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx- xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxx'
```

15.   Use File Explorer to verify that the H: drive has been unlocked. 

  > **Note:**  You unlocked the volume H: by using the recovery password, rather than the password. This provides an alternative way to unlock an encrypted volume, in case you forget the password. The recovery password is protected by AD permissions. By default, only members of the Domain Admins group have permissions to read the recovery information (although it is possible to delegate this access).

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you have generated a recovery key for a BitLocker-encrypted volume with the Password protector, recovered access to the volume by using its recovery key, enabled storing BitLocker recovery information in Active Directory, and used a recovery password stored in Active Directory to provide access to an encrypted volume.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.