# Lab Answer Key: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows 10 Security Features
# Lab 3: Implementing AppLocker on Domain-joined Windows 10 Clients

## Exercise 1: Implement AppLocker on a domain-joined Windows 10 client

#### Task 1: Create an AppLocker policy with default rules for audit only and assign it to a Windows 10 computer

1.   Sign to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, right-click **Start**, in the Start menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder, right-click **Active Directory Administrative Center**, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
3.   In the Active Directory Administrative Center console, select the **Adatum (local)** entry, in the details pane, click **IT**, in the **Tasks** pane, click **New** and then click **Group**.
4.   In the **Create Group** window, specify the following:

  -   Group name: **AppLocker Computers**
  -   Group (SamAccountName): **AppLocker Computers**
  -   Group type: **Security** 
  -   Group scope: **Global**

5.   Click **Members** and click **Add**.
6.   In the **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, click **Object Types**.
7.   In the **Object Types** dialog box, select the **Computers** checkbox and click **OK**.
8.   In the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **LON-CL1** and click **OK**.
9.   Back in the **Create Group: AppLocker Computers** window, click **OK**
10.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder and click **Group Policy Management**.
11.   In the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Forest: Adatum.com** and **Domains** nodes, right click **Adatum.com**, and click the **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here** entry in the right-click menu. 
12.   In the **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **AppLocker Policy** and click **OK**.
13.   Back in the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Adatum.com** node and click the **AppLocker Policy** GPO. If prompted with the message box stating **You have selected a link to a Group Policy Object (GPO). Except for changes to link properties, changes you make here are global to the GPO, and will impact all other locations where this GPO is linked**, enable the checkbox **Do not show this message again** and click **OK**.
14.   On the **Scope** tab of the **AppLocker Policy** GPO, click **Authenticated Users**, click **Remove** and, when prompted to confirm, click **OK**.
15.   Click **Add**, in the **Select User, Computer, or Group** dialog box, type **AppLocker Computers** and click **OK**
16.   Right-click the **AppLocker Computers** GPO and, in the right-click menu click **Edit**. This will open **Group Policy Management Editor**.
17.   In the **Group Policy Management Editor** window, expand **Computer Configuration, Policies, Windows Settings, Security Settings, Application Control Policies, AppLocker**.
18.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, select and right-click **Executable Rules** and click **Create Default Rules**. Review the set of default rules.
19.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, select and right-click **Windows Installer Rules** and click **Create Default Rules**. Review the set of default rules.
20.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, select and right-click **Script Rules** and click **Create Default Rules**. Review the set of default rules.
21.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, select and right-click **Packaged app Rules** and click **Create Default Rules**. Review the set of default rules.
22.   In the tree pane, click **AppLocker**.
23.   In the details pane, click **Configure rule enforcement**.
24.   In the AppLocker properties window, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

  -   Executable rules: enable the **Configured** checkbox and, in the drop down list, click **Audit only**
  -   Windows Installer rules: enable the **Configured** checkbox and, in the drop down list, click **Audit only**
  -   Script rules: enable the **Configured** checkbox and, in the drop down list, click **Audit only**
  -   Packaged app Rules: enable the **Configured** checkbox and, in the drop down list, click **Audit only**

  > **Note:**  Make sure that you do NOT enforce the rules at this point.

25.   In the tree pane, click **System Services** sub-node under the **Security Settings** node.
26.   In the list of services, double-click the **Application Identity** entry.
27.   In the **Application Identity Properties** window, enable the checkbox **Define this policy settings** and click the **Automatic** option under the **Select service startup mode** label and click **OK**.

  > **Note:**  AppLocker is dependent on the **Application Identity** service running.

28.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, right-click **Start** and then click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.
29.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
Restart-Computer -Force
```


  > **Note:**  The restart is necessary in order for the group membership change of LON-CL1 to take effect. 

#### Task 2: Generate the AppLocker policy auditing events

  > **Note:**  In order to generate audit logs, you will perform a number of standard administrative tasks while signed on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, including creating an Active Directory user (**ADATUM\\Student1**) that you will subsequently sign-in as to the same Windows 10 computer in order to perform tasks that would qualify as unauthorized. 

  > **Note:**  **ADATUM\\Student1** will be able to perform these unauthorized tasks primarily because of having have local Administrator privileges to the Windows 10 computer being used by **ADATUM\\Administrator**. In general, you should avoid granting such privileges to users. In scenarios where this is not possible, you should use other control mechanisms (such as AppLocker, as illustrated in this lab) in order to mitigate potential exploits. 

1.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder, right-click **Active Directory Administrative Center**, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
3.   In the **Active Directory Administrative Center** console, click the **Adatum (local)** entry, click **IT** in the details pane, in the **IT** section in the **Tasks** pane, click **New** and then click **User**.
4.   In the **Create User** window, specify the following and click **OK**.

  -   Full name: **Student1**
  -   User UPN logon: **Student1@Adatum.com**
  -   User SamAccountName logon: **ADATUM\\Student1**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd** 
  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**
  -   Password options:  enable the check box **Other password options – Password never expires**

5.   Right-click **Start** and then click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.
6.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
Add-LocalGroupMember –Group 'Administrators' –Member 'ADATUM\Student1'
```

7.   Sign out from LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**. 
8.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Student1**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

9.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Student1**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, click **Windows System**, and click **Command Prompt**. 
10.   When prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
11.   From the Command Prompt, type **regedit.exe** and press **Enter**.
12.   Verify that **Registry Editor** opened successfully. 

  > **Note:**  Next, you will download and use the mimikatz utility, which could be used to capture password hashes of privileged user accounts. Mimikatz is automatically detected by Windows Defender as malware and deleted. In order to avoid it, you will have to create a Windows Defender folder exclusion. Without it, the downloaded file will be automatically deleted since it is detected as malware. In general, you obviously should avoid downloading such files or creating exclusions to facilitate their download

13.   On the taskbar, click **Show hidden icons** and then click the shield icon of **Windows Defender Security Center**.
14.   In the **Windows Defender Security Center** window, click **Virus & threat protection**.
15.   Click **Virus & threat protection settings**.
16.   Scroll down to the **Exclusions** section and click **Add or remove exclusions**.
17.   Click + next to the **Add an exclusion** label and, in the drop-down menu, click **Folder**.
18.   In the Select folder dialog box, navigate to the root of the C: drive, create a new folder named **Exclusions**, select it, and click **Select Folder**.
19.   When prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
20.   Start Microsoft Edge by clicking on its taskbar icon.
21.   In Microsoft Edge, browse to https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/releases 
22.   Download the most recent version of **mimikatz_trunk.zip** into the **C:\\Exclusions** folder.
23.   Start File Explorer, navigate to the **C:\\Exclusions** folder, double-click **mimikatz_trunk.zip**, navigate to the **x64** subfolder, and copy its content to the **C:\\Exclusions** folder.
24.   Click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, click **Windows System**, right-click **Command Prompt**, click **More** and then click **Run as administrator**.
25.   When prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
26.   In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, change the current directory to **C:\\Exclusions**.
27.   From the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, run the following:

```
mimikatz
privilege::debug 
sekurlsa::logonPasswords
```

28.   Examine the output. It should include an entry representing the interactive and remote logons. You will find out how to use mimikatz for an exploit based on this feature in the next lab.
29.   Back in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, at the **mimikatz #** prompt, type **exit**.
30.   Click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Accessories** folder, and click **Internet Explorer**
31.   When prompted, click **Use recommended security and compatibility settings** and click **OK**.
32.   In the Internet Explorer window, browse to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/psexec and download **PsTools.zip** to the **C:\\Exclusions** folder.
32.   In File Explorer, extract **PsExec64.exe** from the **PsTools.zip** to the **C:\\Exclusions** folder.
33.   Switch to the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type **C:\\Exclusions\\PsExec64.exe** and press **Enter**.
34.   When prompted to accept the licensing agreement, click **Agree**. Verify that **PsExec64.exe** executed successfully.
35.   Sign out from LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Student1**.


#### Task 3: Review the AppLocker policy events
1.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder, and click **Event Viewer**
3.   In **Event Viewer**, navigate to **Applications and Services Logs->Microsoft->Windows->AppLocker**.
4.   Review entries appearing in the following operational logs:

  -   **EXE and DLL**
  -   **MSI and Script**
  -   **Packaged app-Deployment**
  -   **Packaged app-Execution**

5.   Switch to the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, and run the following:

```
Get-AppLockerFileInformation –EventLog | Format-List
```

  > **Note:**  Examine the output and identify the executable you run in the previous task. Note that all of the executables (including mimikatz.exe and PsExec64.exe) would be allowed with the default rules in place. Also note that even mimikatz.exe is digitally signed, as you can verify by running Get-AppLockerFileInformation with the –Path parameter. You will take advantage of this by replacing the existing default rules with a new, Publisher-based rule with Publisher-based exceptions.

#### Task 4: Implement custom AppLocker policy rules

  > **Note:**  In order to prevent running the executables listed above, you will implement a Publisher-based rule with Publisher-based exceptions. It is important to realize that such approach is intended strictly to illustrate its effectiveness in remediating this particular issue. In real-life scenarios, you would obviously need to take into account variety of applications that are being used across your environment, some of which might not be digitally signed.

1.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder, right-click **Group Policy Management**, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2.   In the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Forest: Adatum.com**, **Domains**, and **Adatum.com** nodes, right-click **AppLocker Policy** and click **Edit**. This will open **Group Policy Management Editor**.
3.   In the **Group Policy Management Editor** window, expand **Computer Configuration, Policies, Windows Settings, Security Settings, Application Control Policies, AppLocker**.
4.   In the tree pane, under the **AppLocker** node, click **Executable Rules**.
5.   Right-click **Executable Rules** and, in the right-click menu, click **Create New Rule**. This will start the **Create Executable Rules** wizard.
6.   On the **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.
7.   On the **Permissions** page, ensure that **Action** is set to **Allow** and **User or Group** is set to **Everyone** and click **Next**.
8.   On the **Conditions** page, ensure that the **Publisher** option is selected and click **Next**.
9.   On the **Publisher** page, click **Browse** next to the **Reference** file label.
10.   In the **Open** dialog box, browse to the **C:\\Windows\\System32\\dllhost.exe** file, select it and click **Open**. 

  > **Note:**  You can actually select any other digitally signed file in this case.

11.   Back On the **Publisher** page, move the sliding bar all the way to the top until it reaches the **Any publisher** level and click **Next**.
12.   On the **Exceptions** page, click **Add**.
13.   In the **Publisher Exception** dialog box, browse to the **C:\\Windows\\regedit.exe** file, select it and click **Open**. 
14.   In the **Publisher Exception** dialog box, click **Use custom values**, replace the value of the **File version** entry with **0.0.0.0**, and click **OK**.
15.   On the **Exceptions** page, click **Add**.
16.   In the **Publisher Exception** dialog box, browse to the **C:\\Exclusions\\PsExec64.exe** file, select it and click **Open**. 
17.   In the **Publisher Exception** dialog box, click **Use custom values**, replace the value of the **File version** entry with **0.0.0.0**, and click **OK**.
18.   On the **Exceptions** page, click **Add**.
19.   In the **Publisher Exception** dialog box, browse to the **C:\\Exclusions\\mimikatz.exe** file, select it and click **Open**. 
20.   In the **Publisher Exception** dialog box, move the sliding bar up until it reaches the **Publisher** level and click **OK**.
21.   Back On the **Exceptions** page, click **Next**.
22.   On the **Name and Description** page, change the name to **Allow All Signed Executables (with Publisher Exceptions)** and click **Create**.
23.   Select all three default rules, right-click the selection and click **Delete**. When prompted whether to permanently delete the selected rules, click **Yes**. 
24.   Back in the **Group Policy Management Editor** window, right-click the newly created rule and, in the right-click menu, click **Properties**.
25.   In the **Allow Properties** dialog box, click the **Publisher** tab.
26.   On the **Publisher** tab, replace the value of the **File version** entry with **0.0.0.0** and click **OK**.
27.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
gpupdate /force
```

28.   Sign out from LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**. 
29.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   USERNAME: **ADATUM\\Student1**
  -   PASSWORD: **Pa55w.rd**

30.   Click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, click **Windows System**, right-click **Command Prompt**, click **More** and then click **Run as administrator**.
31.   When prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
32.   In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type **regedit.exe** and press **Enter**.
33.   Switch back to the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, change the current directory to **C:\\Exclusions** and run the following:

```
mimikatz
exit
```

34.   Switch to the Command Prompt window, type **C:\\Exclusions\\PsExec64.exe** and press **Enter**.
35.   Right-click **Start** and, in the right-click menu, click **Event Viewer**
36.   In **Event Viewer**, navigate to **Applications and Services Log->Microsoft->Windows->AppLocker**.
37.   Review the **Warning** level entries appearing in the **EXE and DLL** operational log. 

  > **Note:**  Note that this time, the event log contains warnings, indicating that regedit, mimikatz.exe, and PsExec64 would have been prevented from running if the AppLocker policies were enforced. To enforce the policies at this point, you would simply change the AppLocker Properties in the Group Policy Management Editor from **Audit only** to **Enforce rules**. Do not take this extra step since this has a potential of affecting the validation scripts.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented AppLocker policies that prevent running unsigned executables, including exceptions that prevent running specific signed executables.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.