# Lab Answer Key: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows 10 Security Features
# Lab 1: Implementing Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security on Domain-joined Windows 10 Clients

## Exercise 1: Implement end-to-end IPsec connectivity between a Windows 10 domain-joined client and a Windows Server 2016 domain member server by using IKEv2

#### Task 1: Install and configure an Enterprise Certification Authority (CA)

1.   Sign in to the LON-DC1 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   Click **Start** and, in the **Start** menu, click **Server Manager**. In Server Manager, in the **Manage** menu, click **Add Roles and Features**. This will start the **Add Roles and Features Wizard**.
3.   On the Select installation type page, ensure that the **Role-based or feature-based installation** option is selected and click **Next**.
4.   On the Server destination server page, ensure that **LON-DC1** is selected and click **Next**.
5.   On the Select server roles page, select the **Active Directory Certificate Services** check box. When prompted whether to add features that are required for Active Directory Certificate Services, click **Add Features**, and then click **Next**.
6.   On the **Select features** page, click **Next**.
7.   On the **Active Directory Certificate Services** page, click **Next**.
8.   On the **Select role services** page, ensure that the **Certification Authority** check box is selected and then click **Next**.
9.   On the **Confirm installation selections** page, click **Install**. Wait for the installation to complete.
10.   Once the installation completes, click **Configure Active Directory Certificate Services on the destination server**.
11.   On the **Specify credentials to configure role services** page, click **Next**.
12.   On the **Select Role Services to configure** page, select the **Certification Authority** checkbox and click **Next**.
13.   On the **Specify the setup type of the CA** page, ensure that the **Enterprise CA** option is selected and then click **Next**.
14.   On the **Specify the type of the CA** page, ensure that the **Root CA** option is selected, and then click **Next**.
15.   On the **Specify the type of the private key** page, ensure that the **Create a new private key** option is selected and then click **Next**.
16.   On the **Specify the cryptographic options** page, set the key length to **4096**, accept the remaining settings with their default values and click **Next**.
17.   On the **Specify the name of the CA** page, specify the following settings and click **Next**:

  -   Common name for this CA: **adatum-root-CA**
  -   Distinguished name suffix: **DC=adatum,DC=com**
  -   Preview of distinguished name: **CN=adatum-root-CA,DC=adatum,DC=com**

  > **Note:**  Make sure that the distinguished name matches exactly the name provided in this guide (including the case).

18.   On the **Specify the validity period** page, accept the default validity period and click **Next**.
19.   On the **Specify the database locations** page, accept the default location of the certificate database and its log and click **Next**.
20.   On the **Confirmation** page, click **Configure**.
21.   Wait until the configuration completes and click **Close**.
22.   Back On the **Installation progress** page of the Add Roles and Features Wizard, click **Close**.


#### Task 2: Enroll domain computers for Computer certificates issued by the Enterprise CA

1.   Sign in to the LON-CLI1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, right-click **Start** and then click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.
3.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
gpupdate /force
certlm
```

  > **Note:**  This will open the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) with the **Certificates - Local Computer** snap-in loaded.

4.   If necessary, expand the **Certificates – Local Computer** top level node, right-click the **Personal** folder, click **All Tasks**, and click **Request New Certificate**. This will start the **Certificate Enrollment** wizard.
5.   On the **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.
6.   On the **Select Certificate Enrollment Policy** page, ensure that **Active Directory Enrollment Policy** is selected and click **Next**.
7.   On the **Request Certificates** page, select the checkbox next to the **Computer** certificate, click **Details** to view properties of the certificate, and click **Enroll**.
8.   On the **Certificate Installation Results** page, click **Finish**.
9.   In the **Certificates - Local Computer** console, click the **Personal** folder and then click the **Certificates** folder. Review the content of the **Certificates** folder and verify that it includes a computer certificate issued by **adatum-root-CA**. 
10.   Expand the **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** folder and click its **Certificates** subfolder. Note that it includes the **adatum-root-CA** self-issued certificate.

  > **Note:**  Next, you will repeat the same process for LON-SVR1. Obviously in a real-world scenario, you would not enroll certificates in this manner but instead you would configure auto-enrollment via Group Policy. For details regarding such configuration, refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/access-protection/windows-firewall/configure-group-policy-to-autoenroll-and-deploy-certificates 

11.   Sign in to the LON-SVR1 Windows 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

12.   While signed in to LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and click **Run as administrator**.
13.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
gpupdate /force
certlm
```

  > **Note:**  This will open the **Microsoft Management Console (MMC)** with the **Certificates - Local Computer** snap-in loaded.

14.   If necessary, expand the **Certificates – Local Computer** top level node, right-click the **Personal** folder, click **All Tasks**, and click **Request New Certificate**. This will start the **Certificate Enrollment** wizard.
15.   On the **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.
16.   On the **Select Certificate Enrollment Policy** page, ensure that **Active Directory Enrollment Policy** is selected and click **Next**.
17.   On the **Request Certificates** page, select the checkbox next to the **Computer** certificate, click **Details** to view properties of the certificate, and click **Enroll**.
18.   On the **Certificate Installation Results** page, click **Finish**.
19.   Review the content of the **Certificates** folder and verify that it includes a computer certificate issued by **adatum-root-CA**. 
20.   Expand the **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** folder and click its **Certificates** subfolder. Note that it includes the **adatum-root-CA** self-issued certificate


#### Task 3: Create and configure IPsec-related Active Directory objects

1.   Switch to the console session on LON-DC1. While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, click **Windows Administrative Tools** and, once presented with the list of Administrative Tools in the File Explorer window, double-click **Active Directory Administrative Center**.
2.   In the **Active Directory Administrative Center** console, click the **Adatum (local)** entry, in the details pane, locate and click the **IT** entry, in the **Tasks** pane, in the **IT** section, click **New** and then click **Group**.
3.   In the **Create Group** window, specify the following:

  -   Group name: **IPsec Computers**
  -   Group (SamAccountName): **IPsec Computers**
  -   Group type: **Security**
  -   Group scope: **Global**

4.   Click **Members** and click **Add**.
5.   In the **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, click **Object Types**.
6.   In the **Object Types** dialog box, select the **Computers** checkbox and click **OK**.
7.   In the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **LON-CL1;LON-SVR1** and click **OK**.
8.   Back in the **Create Group: IPsec Computers** window, click **OK**
9.   Switch back to the **Windows Administrative Tools** File Explorer window and double-click **Group Policy Management**.
10.   In the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Forest: Adatum.com** and **Domains** nodes, right click **Adatum.com**, and click the **Create a GPO in this domain and Link it here** entry in the right-click menu. 
11.   In the **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **IPsec Isolation Policy** and click **OK**.
12.   Back in the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Adatum.com** node and click **IPsec Isolation Policy GPO**. If prompted with the message box stating **You have selected a link to a Group Policy Object (GPO). Except for changes to link properties, changes you make here are global to the GPO, and will impact all other locations where this GPO is linked**, enable the checkbox **Do not show this message again** and click **OK**.
13.   On the **Scope tab of the IPsec Isolation Policy GPO**, in the **Security Filtering** section, click **Authenticated Users**, click **Remove** and, when prompted to confirm, click **OK**.
14.   Back in the **Security Filtering** section, click **Add**, in the **Select User, Computer, or Group** dialog box, type **IPsec Computers** and click **OK**
15.   Leave the **Group Policy Management** console open.
16.   On LON-DC1, while signed in as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, in the right-click menu, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
17.   To apply the GPO you created in the previous task, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, run the following: 

```
Invoke-Command –ComputerName 'LON-CL1','LON-SVR1' -ScriptBlock {Restart-Computer -Force}
```

  > **Note:**  The restart ensures that the group membership change takes effect. 


#### Task 4: Create and configure IPsec-related firewall rules and assign them via Group Policy

1.   On LON-DC1, while signed in as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, to configure the GPO you created in the previous task, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex1Task4-01.ps1):

```
$gpoName = 'adatum.com\IPsec Isolation Policy'

$certProposal = New-NetIPsecAuthProposal `
 		-Machine -Cert -Authority 'DC=com, DC=adatum, CN=adatum-root-CA'

$ipsecAuth = New-NetIPsecPhase1AuthSet -DisplayName "IKEv2Phase1AuthSet" `
 		-Proposal $certProposal –PolicyStore GPO:$gpoName

New-NetIPSecRule –DisplayName 'Adatum IKEv2 Rule' –RemoteAddress any `
 		–Phase1AuthSet $ipsecAuth.InstanceID `
 		-InboundSecurity Require –OutboundSecurity Request `
		-KeyModule IKEv2 –PolicyStore GPO:$gpoName
```

  > **Note:**  Make sure to include spaces in the value of the **Authority** parameter (`DC=com, DC=adatum, CN=adatum-root-CA`). You also make sure that the case you specify matches the case you used when configuring the Enterprise CA in the first lab.

2.   Switch to the **Group Policy Management Console**, ensure that the **IPsec Isolation Policy GPO** is selected, and click the **Settings** tab.
3.   Click **Show all**.
4.   Review the configuration of **Windows Firewall with Advanced Security**.

  > **Note:**  Keep in mind that this configuration is not modifiable via **Group Policy Management Editor**.


#### Task 5: Test end-to-end IPsec connectivity between domain-joined Windows computers 

1.   Sign in to the LON-CLI1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   Right-click **Start** and then click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.
3.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
gpupdate /force
```

4.   Sign in to the LON-SVR1 Windows Server 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5.   Click **Start**, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and click **Run as administrator**.
6.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
gpupdate /force
```

7.   Switch back to LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder, right-click **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and click **Run as administrator**.
8.   In the **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security** console window, click **Connection Security Rules**. Ensure that **Adatum IKEv2 Rule** appears in the details pane.
9.   Expand the **Monitoring** node and click **Connection Security Rules**. Ensure that **Adatum IKEv2 Rule** appears in the details pane with the **OK** status.
10.   Click **Inbound Rules**.
11.   In the list of inbound rules, select **File and Printer Sharing (Echo Request – ICMPv4-In)** associated with the **Domain** profile and, in the **Actions** pane, click **Enable Rule**.

  > **Note:**  Now repeat the same process for LON-SVR1. 

12.   Switch to LON-SVR1 Windows Server 2016 lab virtual machine. While signed on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, click **Windows Administrative Tools**, and double-click **Windows Firewall with Advanced Security**.
13.   In the **Windows Firewall with Advanced Security** console window, click **Connection Security Rules**. Ensure that **Adatum IKEv2 Rule** appears in the details pane.
14.   Expand the **Monitoring** node and click **Connection Security Rules**. Ensure that **Adatum IKEv2 Rule** appears in the details pane with the **OK** status.
15.   Click **Inbound Rules**.
16.   In the list of inbound rules, enable the **File and Printer Sharing (Echo Request – ICMPv4-In)** associated with **All** profiles. 
17.   Switch back to LON-CL1 and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Test-Connection –ComputerName LON-SVR1
```

18.   Verify that the connection is successful and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Get-NetIPsecQuickModeSA
```

19.   Review the results and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Get-NetIPsecMainModeSA
```

20.   Review the results and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Test-Connection –ComputerName LON-DC1
```

21.   Verify that the connection is successful. Rerun the `Get-NetIPsecQuickModeSA` and `Get-NetIPSecMainModeSA` and note that connection to LON-DC1 is not part of the security associations.
22.   Switch to LON-DC1 and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, run the following:

```
Test-Connection –ComputerName LON-CL1
```

  > **Note:**  The connection should fail since the authentication mode has been configured with Require inbound and request outbound. 

  > **Note:**  When implementing IPsec in an Active Directory environment, you should follow the guidelines described in https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/254949/ipsec-support-for-client-to-domain-controller-traffic-and-domain-contr 

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented and tested end-to-end IPsec connectivity with IKEv2.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.