# Lab Answer Key: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows 10 Security Features
# Lab 4: Implementing Windows Defender Device Guard Code Integrity on Domain-joined Windows 10 Clients

## Exercise 1: Implement Windows Defender Device Guard Code Integrity on a domain-joined Windows 10 client

#### Task 1: Create a publisher based code integrity policy with file hash failover in audit mode

1.   Sign to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, right-click **Start**, expand the **Windows PowerShell** folder, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and then click **Run as administrator**.
3.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab4Ex1Task1-01.ps1):

```
$CIPolicyDir = New-Item –Path C:\Data\CIPolicyFiles –Type Directory -Force
Set-Location –Path $CIPolicyDir.FullName
$initialCIPolicyFile = Join-Path –Path $CIPolicyDir.FullName `
 				   -ChildPath '\InitialScan1.xml'
$CIPolicyBinFile = Join-Path –Path $CIPolicyDir.FullName `
			       -ChildPath '\DeviceGuardCIPolicy.bin'
New-CIPolicy –Level PcaCertificate `
 	     –FilePath $InitialCIPolicyFile `
 	     –UserPEs `
 	     -OmitPaths 'C:\Windows.old' `
 	     -Fallback Hash 3> CIPolicyLog.txt
```

  > **Note:**  The Level parameter of the `New-CIPolicy` cmdlet designates the criteria identifying applications that you intend to use to dictate whether applications will be allowed to run on the local computer. In this example, you are using the PcaCertificate level, which checks digitally signed binaries for certificates of their signers and records the highest one in the certificate chain directly below the root certificate. 

  > **Note:**  The UserPFE parameter extends the scope of the scan to include user mode executables, in addition to the kernel mode binaries, such as drivers. 

  > **Note:**  The OmitPaths parameter allows you to exclude directories from being scanned, such as the Windows.old directory which stores files from a previous version of Windows following an upgrade of the operating system, which does not contain binaries that you intend to use. 

  > **Note:**  The Fallback parameter accounts for files which are not digitally signed and, when assigned the Hash value, generates a hash which uniquely identifies each of them. Note, however, that any changes to these files will cause the hash-based validation to fail.

  > **Note:**  This will initiate scan of the local computer for all binaries. The duration of the scan depends on the content of the local drives and the performance characteristics of the local computer. On average, this might take a few hours. In order to avoid the wait time, you will interrupt the scan and instead use the policy file that was generated on the lab computer when this lab was authored.

4.   With focus on the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, press **Ctrl+C** to interrupt the scan. 
5.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab4Ex1Task1-02.ps1):

```
$initialCIPolicyFile = Join-Path –Path $CIPolicyDir.FullName `
 				   -ChildPath '\InitialScan.xml'
ConvertFrom-CIPolicy $initialCIPolicyFile $CIPolicyBinFile
```

  > **Note:**  This converts the XML-formatted results of the scan into a binary format. For the resulting policy to take effect, you would configure the policy by pointing to the location of the binary file and modifying the policy options to specifying either the audit or enforcement mode. However, your intention is to apply some additional rules that will block specific policy files. You will define these rules in the next task.  

#### Task 2: Create a policy blocking a signed executable and merge it with the first policy

  > **Note:**  In this task, you will use a sample policy file to explicitly prevent windbg.exe from running once the code integrity policy is implemented. The reason for it is that windbg.exe (along with other software signed by Microsoft) can potentially be exploited in order to run unsigned code, effectively circumventing restrictions imposed by code integrity.

1.   While signed in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start Internet Explorer and browse to https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/hardware/download-windbg 
2.   Click the **Get Debugging Tools for Windows (WinDbg) (from the SDK)** link. On the **Windows 10 SDK** page, click **DOWNLOAD THE INSTALLER** and, when prompted whether to run or save **winsdksetup.exe**, click **Run**. This will start the **Windows Software Development Kit – Windows 10** wizard.
3.   On the **Specify Location** page, accept the default location and click **Next**.
4.   On the **Windows Kit Privacy** page, ensure that the **No** option is selected and click **Next**.
5.   On the **License Agreement** page, click **Accept**.
6.   On the **Select the features you want to install** page, change the default selection such that it includes only **Debugging Tools for Windows** and click **Install**.
7.   Wait for the installation to complete and, on the **Welcome to the Windows Software Development Kit – Windows 10** page, click **Close**.
8.   While signed in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab4Ex1Task2-01.ps1):

```
$denyCIPolicyFile = 'C:\Data\CIPolicyFiles\DenyBinariesPolicy.xml'
$denyFolderPath = 'C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\10\Debuggers\x64'
$denyFolderInfo = Get-SystemDriver -ScanPath $denyFolderPath -UserPEs –NoShadowCopy
```

  > **Note:**  The `Get-SystemDriver` cmdlet scans the file system location identified by the ScanPath parameter and returns signer and hash information identifying files at that location.

9.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab4Ex1Task2-02.ps1):

```
$denyFileName = 'windbg.exe'
$denyFile = Join-Path –Path $denyFolderPath –ChildPath $denyFileName
$denyFileInfo = $denyFolderInfo | Where-Object {
 	$_.FriendlyName –like "*\$denyFileName" -and $_.UserMode -eq $True}
New-CIPolicy -FilePath $denyCIPolicyFile -DriverFiles $denyFileInfo `
 			 -Level FilePublisher -Deny –UserPEs
```

  > **Note:**  This generates a new policy file that contains the rules identifying windbg.exe

10.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab4Ex1Task2-03.ps1):

```
$denyPolicyRules = Get-CIPolicy -FilePath $denyCIPolicyFile
$denyPolicyRules | Where-Object { $_.TypeId -eq 'FileAttrib' } | 
ForEach-Object {Edit-CIPolicyRule -FilePath $denyCIPolicyFile -Id $_.Id `
   		      -Version '65535.65535.65535.65535'}
```

  > **Note:**  This sets the minimum version of the signed binary to `65535.65535.65535.65535`, effectively blocking it from running.

11.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab4Ex1Task2-04.ps1):

```
$denyPolicyRules = Get-CIPolicy -FilePath $denyCIPolicyFile
$mergedCIPolicyFile = Join-Path –Path $CIPolicyDir.FullName `
 				-ChildPath 'mergedCIPolicy.xml'
$mergedCIPolicyBinFile = Join-Path –Path $CIPolicyDir.FullName `
 			–ChildPath 'mergedDeviceGuardCIPolicy.bin'
Merge-CIPolicy –PolicyPaths $initialCIPolicyFile,$denyCIPolicyFile `
 				–OutputFilePath $mergedCIPolicyFile
```

  > **Note:**  This merges the two code integrity policy files.

12.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab4Ex1Task2-05.ps1):

```
ConvertFrom-CIPolicy –XmlFilePath $mergedCIPolicyFile `
 		      -BinaryFilePath $mergedCIPolicyBinFile

```

  > **Note:**  This generates the binary file containing the policy rules. The output will provide the location of the file (C:\\Data\\CIPolicyFiles\\mergedDeviceGuardCIPolicy.bin)

#### Task 3: Deploy the resulting code integrity policy via Group Policy

  > **Note:**  While you could, at this point, simply copy the binary file to the **C:\\Windows\\System32\\CodeIntegrity** folder and rename it to **SiPolicy.p7b**, you will step through the process that illustrates a typical implementation of this task in an enterprise environment. The implementation involves the following steps:
  -   Copying the binary file to a network share
  -   Granting read access to the share to computers where you want to implement the policy
  -   Creating a GPO targeting the computers where you want to implement the policy. 
  -   Enable the **Deploy Code Integrity Policy** setting in the GPO that specifies the location of the shared policy file as the source for the code integrity policy

1.   On LON-CL1, while signed on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder, and click **Active Directory Administrative Center**.
2.   In the **Active Directory Administrative Center** console, click the **Adatum (local)** entry, click **IT** in the details pane, in the Tasks pane, in the **IT** section, click **New** and then click **Group**.
3.   In the **Create Group** window, specify the following:

  -   Group name: **Code integrity Computers**
  -   Group (SamAccountName): **Code integrity Computers**
  -   Group type: **Security** 
  -   Group scope: **Global**

4.   Click **Members** and, in the **Members** section, click **Add**.
5.   In the **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, click **Object Types**.
6.   In the **Object Types** dialog box, select the **Computers** checkbox and click **OK**.
7.   In the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **LON-CL1** and click **OK**.
8.   Back In the **Create Group: Code Integrity Computers** window, click **OK**
9.   While signed in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** script pane, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab4Ex1Task3-01.ps1):

```
Invoke-Command –Computer LON-SVR1 `
 	–ScriptBlock {New-Item –Path C:\Data\CIPolicyFiles –Type Directory –Force}
Invoke-Command –Computer LON-SVR1 `
      –ScriptBlock {New-SMBShare –Name CIPolicyFiles `
 	 			-Path C:\Data\CIPolicyFiles `
 				-ReadAccess 'ADATUM\Code Integrity Computers' `
 				-FullAccess 'ADATUM\Domain Admins'}
Copy-Item –Path $mergedCIPolicyBinFile –Destination '\\LON-SVR1\CIPolicyFiles'
```

  > **Note:**  This sequence of cmdlets creates a new file share **\\\\LON-SVR1\\CIPolicyFiles** with read access granted to ADATUM\\Code Integrity Computers and copies the newly generated binary policy file into it. 

10.   While signed in to LON-CL1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder, and click **Group Policy Management**.
11.   In the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Forest: Adatum.com** and **Domains** nodes, right click **Adatum.com**, and click the **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here** entry in the right-click menu. 
12.   In the **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **Code Integrity Policy** and click **OK**.
13.   Back In the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Adatum.com** node and click the **Code Integrity Policy** GPO. If prompted with the message box stating **You have selected a link to a Group Policy Object (GPO). Except for changes to link properties, changes you make here are global to the GPO, and will impact all other locations where this GPO is linked**, enable the checkbox **Do not show this message again** and click **OK**.
14.   On the **Scope** tab of the **Code Integrity Policy** GPO, click **Authenticated Users**, click **Remove** and, when prompted to confirm, click **OK**.
15.   Click **Add**, In the **Select User, Computer, or Group** dialog box, type **Code integrity Computers** and click **OK**
16.   Right-click the **Code integrity Computers** GPO and, in the right-click menu click **Edit**. This will open **Group Policy Management Editor**.
17.   In the **Group Policy Management Editor** window, expand **Computer Configuration->Policies->Administrative Templates->System->Device Guard** and then, in the details pane, double-click **Deploy Windows Defender Application Control**.
18.   In the **Deploy Windows Defender Application Control** window, click **Enabled**.
19.   In the **Code Integrity Policy file path** textbox, type **\\\\LON-SVR1.adatum.com\\CIPolicyFiles\\mergedDeviceGuardCIPolicy.bin** and click **OK**.
20.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** console pane, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
Restart-Computer -Force
```

  > **Note:**  The restart is necessary in order for the group membership change and the integrity policy to take effect.

#### Task 4: Validate results by reviewing the CodeIntegrity operational log

1.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   Right-click **Start** and click **Run**.
3.   In the **Open** text box, type **cmd.exe** and click **OK**.
4.   From the Command Prompt, run **C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Windows Kits\\10\\Debuggers\\x64\\windbg.exe**
5.   Right-click **Start** and click **Event Viewer**.
6.   In the **Event Viewer** window, navigate to the **Applications and Services Logs\\Microsoft\\Windows\\CodeIntegrity\\Operational** log.
7.   In the log, locate the most recent **Information** event, with the event ID **3076**. Double-click on the event. 
8.   Review the entry on the **General** tab that states **Code Integrity determined that a process (\\Device\\Harddisk\\Volum4\\Windows\\System32\\cmd.exe attempted to load \\Device\\Harddisk\\Volume4\\Program Files (x86)\\Windows Kits\\10\\Debugger\\x64\\windbg.exe that did not meet the Enterprise signing level requirements or violated code integrity policy. However, due to code integrity auditing policy, the image was allowed to run.**

  > **Note:**  The event regarding windbg.exe is generated once following a reboot. You will not see additional events if you launch windbg.exe again.
If you are not seeing an event entry with ID 3076, restart LON-CLI1 and repeat steps 2-8. 

9.   Right-click **Start** and then click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.
10.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Set-RuleOption -Help
```

  > **Note:**  Review the output and verify that the code integrity is currently operating in the Audit mode (option 3).

  > **Note:**  To enforce code integrity, you would need to use the `Set-RuleOption` cmdlet to delete option 3 in the merged code integrity XML policy file, convert it to a binary format, redeploy it via Group Policy, and reboot the target computer. 
For more details regarding this process, refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/device-security/device-guard/deploy-code-integrity-policies-steps 

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented Device Guard code integrity policy that allows running all binaries on the LON-CL1 lab virtual machine with exception of windbg.exe

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.