# Lab Answer Key: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows 10 Security Features
# Lab 5: Implementing Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard and Remote Admin mode on Domain-joined Windows 10 Clients

## Exercise 1: Implement Remote Desktop session protection with Remote Credential Guard

#### Task 1: Enable Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard on the Remote Desktop target host

1.   Sign to the LON-SVR1 Windows 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, right-click **Start**, click **Run**, in the **Open** text box, type **regedit**, and then click **OK**.
3.   In the **Registry Editor** window, navigate to the **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\System\\CurrentControlSet\\Control\\Lsa** registry key.
4.   Create a new registry entry named **DisableRestrictedAdmin** of **REG_DWORD** type and set its value to **0**.
5.   Close **Registry Editor**.

  > **Note:**  Alternatively, you can accomplish the same result by running the following from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** elevated prompt:

```
Set-ItemProperty –Path HKLM:\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa –Name DisableRestrictedAdmin -Value 0 –Type DWord
```

#### Task 2: Enable Remote Credential Guard on the Remote Desktop client

1.   Sign in to the LON-DC1 Windows Server 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder and click **Active Directory Administrative Center**.
3.   In the **Active Directory Administrative Center** console, ensure that **Adatum (local)** entry is selected, in the details pane, click **IT**, in the **IT** section in the **Tasks** pane, click **New** and then click **User**.
4.   In the **Create User** window, specify the following and click **OK**.

  -   Full name: **Student1**
  -   User UPN logon: **Student1@Adatum.com**
  -   User SamAccountName logon: **Adatum\Student1**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd** 
  -   Password options: **Other password options – Password never expires**

5.   click **OK**.
6.   While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and click **Run as administrator**.
7.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
Invoke-Command –ComputerName LON-SVR1 –ScriptBlock {Add-LocalGroupMember –Group 'Administrators' –Member 'ADATUM\Student1'}
```

  > **Note:**  This will add the newly created user to the local Administrators group on LON-SVR1. You will use the ADATUM\\Student1 account during this and subsequent tasks to test the functionality of Remote Credential Guard and the Restricted Admin Mode.

8.   While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder and click **Group Policy Management**.
9.   In the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Forest: Adatum.com** and **Domains** nodes, right click **Adatum.com**, and click **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here entry** in the right-click menu. 
10.   In the **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **Remote Desktop Protection Policy** and click **OK**.
11.   Back in the **Group Policy Management** console, expand the **Adatum.com** node and click **Remote Desktop Protection Policy** GPO. If prompted with the message box stating **You have selected a link to a Group Policy Object (GPO). Except for changes to link properties, changes you make here are global to the GPO, and will impact all other locations where this GPO is linked**, enable the checkbox **Do not show this message again** and click **OK**.
12.   On the **Scope** tab of the **Remote Desktop Protection Policy** GPO, click **Authenticated Users**, click **Remove** and, when prompted to confirm, click **OK**.
13.   Click **Add**, in the **Select User, Computer, or Group** dialog box, click **Object Types**. 
14.   In the **Object Types** dialog box, select **Computers** and click **OK**.
15.   Type **LON-CL1** and click **OK**

  > **Note:**  Typically, you would use an Active Directory group containing the LON-CL1 computer account to apply Security Filtering of a GPO. We are using the LON-CL1 computer account directly for the sake of simplicity. This is a viable approach in a lab scenario.

16.   Right-click **Remote Desktop Protection Policy** GPO and, in the right-click menu click **Edit**. This will open **Group Policy Management Editor**.
17.   In the **Group Policy Management Editor** window, navigate to **Computer Configuration->Policies->Administrative Templates->System->Credentials Delegation**.
18.   In the details pane, double-click **Restrict delegation of credentials to remote servers**
19.   Click **Enabled**.
20.   In the **Use the following restricted mode** drop-down list, select **Require Remote Credential Guard**.

  > **Note:**  The Restrict delegation of credentials to remote servers setting offers three choices:
  -   Require Remote Credential Guard – enforces Windows Defender Credential Guard
  -   Require Restricted Admin – enforces Restricted Admin
  -   Restrict Credential Delegation – enforces Windows Defender Credential Guard if supported – otherwise enforces Restricted Admin.

21.   Click **OK**. Leave the **Group Policy Management Editor** window open. You will use it in Exercise 2.
22.   Sign in to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

23.   Right-click **Start** and then click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**. 
24.   To ensure that the group policy change is applied, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following:

```
gpupdate /force
```

  > **Note:**  Validation of the functionality of Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard and Remote Desktop mode will involve remote enumeration of the content of the administrative share on LON-CL1. To faciliate this, you need to modify the defaut settings of Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security.

25.   On LON-CL1, click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, expand the **Windows Administrative Tools** folder, right-click **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and click **Run as administrator**.
26.   In the **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security** console window, click **Inbound Rules**.
27.   In the list of inbound rules, select **File and Printer Sharing (Echo Request – ICMPv4-In)** associated with the **Domain** profile and, in the **Actions** pane, click **Enable Rule**.


#### Task 3: Allow Remote Desktop connections to the Remote Desktop target host

1.   On LON-SVR1, right-click **Start** and click **Run**.
2.   In the **Open** text box, type **sysdm.cpl** and click **OK**.
3.   In the **System Properties** dialog box, switch to the **Remote** tab.
4.   Click **Allow remote connections to this computer**.
5.   Click **OK** to acknowledge that Remote Desktop Firewall exceptions will be enabled.
6.   Click **OK** to allow Remote Desktop connections.
7.   Sign out from LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**.
8.   Sign in to the LON-SVR1 Windows 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Student1**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

#### Task 4: Establish a Remote Desktop session with Remote Credential Guard enabled.

1.   On LON-CL1, while signed on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, right-click **Start** and click **Run**.
2.   In the **Open** text box, type **mstsc**.
3.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, click **Show options**.
4.   In the **Computer** text box, type **LON-SVR1.adatum.com**.
5.   Ensure that **Administrator@adatum.com** appears in the **User name** text box
6.   Click **Connect**.

  > **Note:**  In scenarios where you have not enforced the Remote Credential Guard on a remote server via Group Policy, you can add the /remoteGuard switch when running mstsc.exe to specify that you want to apply the Remote Credential Guard protection. 

#### Task 5: Examine Remote Credential Guard protection 

  > **Note:**  In this task, you will use mimikatz in order to attempt retrieval of credentials of a user accessing the local server via Remote Desktop. Without the Remote Credential Guard protection, this attempt would be successful. Note that running mimikatz in this manner requires local Administrator privileges.

  > **Note:**  In order to complete subsequent steps, you will need to create a Windows Defender folder exclusion. Without it, the downloaded file will be automatically deleted since it is detected as malware. In general, you obviously should avoid downloading such files or creating exclusions to facilitate their download.

1.   Switch to the console connection to LON-SVR1 (as **ADATUM\\Student1**).
2.   Click **Start** and, in the **Start** menu, click **Settings**. 
3.   In the **Settings** app, click **Update & security**.
4.   Click **Windows Defender**.
5.   Click **Add an exclusion**.
6.   In the **Add an exclusion** interface, click **Exclude a folder**.
7.   In the **Select Folder** dialog box, navigate to **C:\Exclusions** and click **Exclude this folder**.
8.   Click **Start**, in the **Start** menu, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and click **Run as administrator**. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
9.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
New-Item -ItemType Directory -Path 'C:\Exclusions' -Force
[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType
Invoke-WebRequest –Uri https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/releases/download/2.1.1-20180616/mimikatz_trunk.zip -Outfile C:\Exclusions\mimikatz_trunk.zip
```

  > **Note:**  This will download the release 2.1.1-20180616 of mimikatz (mimikatz_trunk.zip) into the C:\\Exclusions folder from https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/releases

10.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, type the following and press **Enter**:

```
Expand-Archive –Path C:\Exclusions\mimikatz_trunk.zip -DestinationPath C:\Exclusions -Force
```

  > **Note:**  This will extract the content of the downloaded archive the C:\\Exclusions folder.

11.   Right-click **Start** and click **Command Prompt (Admin)**. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
12.   In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, change the current directory to **C:\\Exclusions\\x64**.
13.   From the Command Prompt, run the following:

```
mimikatz
privilege::debug
sekurlsa::logonPasswords
exit
```

  > **Note:**  Examine the output. It should include an entry representing the remote interactive logon of the ADATUM Administrator account. Note that the value of the Kerberos password as well as NTLM and SHA1 hashes are not available. 

14.   Switch to LON-CL1 and, in the Remote Desktop session to LON-SVR1, right-click **Start** and click **Command Prompt**.
15.   At the Command Prompt, type **klist**.
16.   Examine the list of Kerberos tickets. Notice that all tickets have been issued to Administrator@ADATUM.COM.
17.   From the Command Prompt, run the following:

```
dir \\LON-CL1.adatum.com\c$
```

  > **Note:**  Verify that the output of the command includes the listing of the top level folders on the LON-CL1. This is expected since you are using the credentials of the ADATUM Administrator account, which is a member of the local Administrators group on LON-CL1.

18.   Rerun **klist** and note an additional Kerberos ticket issued to Administrator@ADATUM.COM.
19.   Log off as Administrator@adatum.com from within the Remote Desktop session to LON-SVR1.
20.   Switch to the console connection to LON-SVR1 (to which you are signed in as **ADATUM\\Student1**).
21.   On LON-SVR1, right-click **Start** and click **Event Viewer**.
22.   In the **Event Viewer** window, click **Security**.
23.   In the Security log, search for the events **4624** corresponding to the successful log on using the Administrator@adatum.com credentials. Locate the event corresponding to the log on via the Remote Desktop.
24.   Double-click on the event. 
25.   On the **General** tab, scroll down through the subject of the event. Make sure that the logon type is 10, which represents a Remote Interactive logon. 
26.   Note that the authentication package is set to Negotiate.
27.   Close the **Event Viewer** window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented Remote Credential Guard and tested its functionality.


## Exercise 2: Implement Remote Desktop session protection with Restricted Admin Mode

#### Task 1: Enable Restricted Admin Mode on the Remote Desktop client

1.   While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, in the **Group Policy Management Editor** window of the **Remote Desktop Protection Policy** GPO, ensure that you are viewing the **Computer Configuration->Policies->Administrative Templates->System->Credentials Delegation** node.
2.   In the details pane, double-click **Restrict delegation of credentials to remote servers**
3.   In the **Use the following restricted mode** drop-down list, select **Require Restricted Admin**.
4.   Click **OK**
5.   Switch to the LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine where you are logged on as **ADATUM\\Administrator**
6.   To ensure that the group policy change is applied, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following:

```
gpupdate /force
```

#### Task 2: Establish a Remote Desktop session with Restricted Admin Mode enabled.

1.   On LON-CL1, right-click **Start** and click **Run**.
2.   In the **Open** text box, type **mstsc**.
3.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, click **Show options**.
4.   In the **Computer** text box, type **LON-SVR1.adatum.com**.
5.   In the **User name** text box, type **Administrator@adatum.com**.
6.   Click **Connect**.

  > **Note:**  In scenarios where you have not enforced Remote Credential Guard on a remote server, you can add the /restrictedAdmin switch when running mstsc.exe to specify that you want to apply the Restricted Admin Mode protection. 

#### Task 3: Examine Restricted Admin Mode protection 

1.   Switch to the console connection to LON-SVR1 as **ADATUM\\Student1**.
2.   From the Command Prompt window, run the following:

```
mimikatz
privilege::debug
sekurlsa::logonPasswords
exit
```

  > **Note:**  Examine the output. It should include an entry representing the remote interactive logon of the ADATUM Administrator account. Note that the value of the Kerberos password entry is null and even though NTLM and SHA1 hashes are available, they all represent the credentials of the LON-SVR1 computer account, rather than the ADATUM\\Student1 user account (as indicated by the Username : LON-SVR1$ entry).

3.   Switch to LON-CL1 and, in the Remote Desktop session to LON-SVR1, right-click **Start** and click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.
4.   At the Command Prompt, type **klist**.
5.   Examine the list of Kerberos tickets. Note that they were issued to LON-SVR1@adatum.com, rather than Administrator@adatum.com.
6.   From the Command Prompt, run the following:

```
dir \\LON-CL1.adatum.com\c$
```

  > **Note:**  Note that this time the command displays the Access is denied error message. This is expected since you are using the credentials of the LON-SVR1@adatum.com computer account, which is not a member of the local Administrators group on LON-CL1. If you want to provide access to remote shares from within a Remote Desktop session in the Restricted Admin mode, you would need to grant permissions to the computer account which hosts the Remote Desktop session.

7.   Log off as Administrator@adatum.com from within the Remote Desktop session to LON-SVR1.
8.   Switch to the console connection to LON-SVR1 (to which you are signed in as **ADATUM\\Student1**).
9.   On LON-SVR1, right-click **Start** and click **Event Viewer**.
10.   In the **Event Viewer** window, click **Security**.
11.   In the Security log, search for the events **4624** corresponding to the successful log on using the Administrator@adatum.com credentials. Locate the event corresponding to the log on via the Remote Desktop.
12.   Double-click on the event. 
13.   On the **General** tab, scroll down through the subject of the event. Make sure that the logon type is 10, which represents a Remote Interactive logon. 
14.   Note that the **Restricted Admin Mode** is set to **Yes**.
15.   Close the Event Viewer window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented Restricted Admin Mode and tested its functionality.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.