# Lab High Level Steps: Microsoft Security Workshop: Implementing Windows 10 Security Features
# Lab 1: Implementing Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security on Domain-joined Windows 10 Clients

### Scenario
You have a domain-joined Windows 10 client computer. You plan to take advantage of the Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security to provide secure end-to-end IPsec connectivity between the domain-joined Windows 10 client and a Windows Server 2016 domain member server by using IKEv2.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 30 minutes

The lab consists of the following computers:

  -   LON-DC1 – a Windows Server 2016 domain controller in the adatum.com single-domain forest. You will use it to host a Certification Authority.

  > **Note:**  In general, you should avoid using AD domain controllers to host PKI roles. We are not following this approach in the lab strictly in order to optimize use of lab VMs. The process of deploying and configuring a Certification Authority server would be identical when using a domain member server.

  -   LON-SVR1 – a Windows Server 2016 domain member server
  -   LON-CL1 – a Windows 10 Pro or Enterprise version 1709 (or newer) domain member computer with Remote Server Administration Tools for Windows 10

All computers have Windows PowerShell Remoting enabled and have Internet connectivity

  > **Note:**  IKEv2 provides end-to-end transport mode security for domain-joined and standalone Windows OS computers. It requires a PKI infrastructure since it relies on certificate-based authentication. It supports coexistence with existing AuthIP/IKEv1–based implementations. Note that, at the time of authoring of this content, configuring IKEv2 is not available via graphical interface. In this lab, you will use for this purpose Windows PowerShell.


## Exercise 1: Implement end-to-end IPsec connectivity between a Windows 10 domain-joined client and a Windows Server 2016 domain member server by using IKEv2

In this exercise, you will implement end-to-end IPsec connectivity between a Windows 10 domain-joined client and a Windows Server 2016 domain member server by using IKEv2. The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Install and configure an Enterprise Certification Authority (CA)
2.   Enroll domain computers for Computer certificates issued by the Enterprise CA
3.   Create and configure IPsec-related Active Directory objects
4.   Create and configure IPsec-related firewall rules and assign them via Group Policy
5.   Test end-to-end IPsec connectivity between domain-joined Windows computers

#### Task 1: Install and configure an Enterprise Certification Authority (CA)

1.   Sign in to the LON-DC1 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   From Server Manager, install the **Certification Authority** service of the **Active Directory Certificate Services** server role with the following settings:

  -   the type of the CA: **Root Enterprise CA**
  -   the type of the private key: **Create a new private key** 
  -   the key length: **4096**
  -   the distinguished name of the CA: **CN=adatum-root-CA,DC=adatum,DC=com**
  -   the validity period: default
  -   the database locations: default

  > **Note:**  Make sure that the distinguished name matches exactly the name provided in this guide (including the case).

#### Task 2: Enroll domain computers for Computer certificates issued by the Enterprise CA

1.   Sign in to the LON-CLI1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   On LON-CL1, force the update of Group Policy processing.
3.   Launch Microsoft Management Console (MMC) with the **Certificates - Local Computer** snap-in loaded.
4.   From the **Certificates - Local Computer** snap-in, install the LON-CL1 **Computer** certificate issued by **adatum-root-CA**. 
5.   Verify that the **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** store includes the **adatum-root-CA** self-issued certificate.
6.   Repeat steps 1-5 on LON-SVR1.

  > **Note:**  Obviously in a real-world scenario, you would not enroll certificates in this manner but instead you would configure auto-enrollment via Group Policy. For details regarding such configuration, refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/access-protection/windows-firewall/configure-group-policy-to-autoenroll-and-deploy-certificates 


#### Task 3: Create and configure IPsec-related Active Directory objects

1.   Switch to the console session on LON-DC1. While signed in to LON-DC1 as **ADATUM\\Administrator**, start **Active Directory Administrative Center**.
2.   In the **Active Directory Administrative Center** console, create a new group with the following settings:

  -   Group name: **IPsec Computers**
  -   Group (SamAccountName): **IPsec Computers**
  -   Group type: **Security**
  -   Group scope: **Global**
  -   Members: **LON-CL1;LON-SVR1**

3.   On LON-DC1, start **Group Policy Management**.
4.   In the **Group Policy Management** console, create a new GPO with the following settings:

  -   Name: **IPsec Isolation Policy**
  -   Linked to: **Adatum.com**
  -   Applied to: **IPsec Computers**

5.   From LON-DC1, use Windows PowerShell Remoting to restart LON-CL1 and LON-SVR1.

  > **Note:**  The restart ensures that the group membership change takes effect. 


#### Task 4: Create and configure IPsec-related firewall rules and assign them via Group Policy

1.   On LON-DC1, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, to configure the GPO you created in the previous task, run the following (F:\\Labfiles\\Scripts\\Lab1Ex1Task4-01.ps1):

```
$gpoName = 'adatum.com\IPsec Isolation Policy'

$certProposal = New-NetIPsecAuthProposal `
 		-Machine -Cert -Authority 'DC=com, DC=adatum, CN=adatum-root-CA'

$ipsecAuth = New-NetIPsecPhase1AuthSet -DisplayName "IKEv2Phase1AuthSet" `
 		-Proposal $certProposal –PolicyStore GPO:$gpoName

New-NetIPSecRule –DisplayName 'Adatum IKEv2 Rule' –RemoteAddress any `
 		–Phase1AuthSet $ipsecAuth.InstanceID `
 		-InboundSecurity Require –OutboundSecurity Request `
		-KeyModule IKEv2 –PolicyStore GPO:$gpoName
```

  > **Note:**  Make sure to include spaces in the value of the **Authority** parameter (`DC=com, DC=adatum, CN=adatum-root-CA`). You also make sure that the case you specify matches the case you used when configuring the Enterprise CA in the first lab.

2.   In the **Group Policy Management** console, review the settings of **IPsec Isolation Policy GPO**.

  > **Note:**  Keep in mind that this configuration is not modifiable via **Group Policy Management Editor**.


#### Task 5: Test end-to-end IPsec connectivity between domain-joined Windows computers 

1.   Sign in to the LON-CLI1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   On LON-CL1, force the update of Group Policy processing.
3.   Sign in to the LON-SVR1 Windows Server 2016 lab virtual machine with the following credentials:

  -   Username: **ADATUM\\Administrator**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.   On LON-SVR1, force the update of Group Policy processing.
5.   Switch back to LON-CL1 Windows 10 lab virtual machine and start **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security**. 
6.   In the **Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security** console window, navigate to the **Connection Security Rules** node and ensure that **Adatum IKEv2 Rule** appears in the details pane.
7.   Expand the **Monitoring** node and click **Connection Security Rules**. Ensure that **Adatum IKEv2 Rule** appears in the details pane with the **OK** status.
8.   In the list of inbound rules, enable the **File and Printer Sharing (Echo Request – ICMPv4-In)** rule associated with the **Domain** profile.
9.   Repeat steps 5-8 on LON-SVR1. 
10.   Switch back to LON-CL1 and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Test-Connection –ComputerName LON-SVR1
```

11.   Verify that the connection is successful and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Get-NetIPsecQuickModeSA
```

12.   Review the results and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Get-NetIPsecMainModeSA
```

13.   Review the results and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

```
Test-Connection –ComputerName LON-DC1
```

14.   Verify that the connection is successful. Rerun the `Get-NetIPsecQuickModeSA` and `Get-NetIPSecMainModeSA` and note that connection to LON-DC1 is not part of the security associations.
15.   Switch to LON-DC1 and, from the **Adminstrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, run the following:

```
Test-Connection –ComputerName LON-CL1
```

  > **Note:**  The connection should fail since the authentication mode has been configured with Require inbound and request outbound. 

  > **Note:**  When implementing IPsec in an Active Directory environment, you should follow the guidelines described in https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/254949/ipsec-support-for-client-to-domain-controller-traffic-and-domain-contr 

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented and tested end-to-end IPsec connectivity with IKEv2.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.